Galamon had taught Argrave a lot about combat, commanding, and strategy. The man was a great general, and Argrave was eager to learn whatever he could from him. Barring his own personal interest on the matter, as things proceeded, he would be talking to and commanding a lot more than a group of four and their pets. He needed to learn these things.
He told Argrave of a simple principle—when fighting multiple foes, focus on ending one foe quickly so as to upset the balance in one’s favor. That strategy held up with his knowledge of video games in general. When fighting multiple bosses, or even just regular enemies, it’s best to focus on one and knock it out quickly. After deliberating on the matter, Argrave recalled a phrase that was used to describe that, even if indirectly.
Divide and conquer.
It wasn’t a one-to-one match in terms of definition, but the point stood—enemies united are much more difficult to deal with.
“Galamon!” Argrave shouted as the golems approached them. He triggered the Blessing of Supersession for caution’s sake, though he was not sure he would need it. He could not bombard these foes with electric eels.
The golem on the left side bore lightning on its spear. Its actions were smooth, fluid, and it proceeded towards them in an almost human run. In stark contrast, the golem on the right side without lightning was more withdrawn, and it did not move half as fast as its companion. Soon enough, it trailed behind its lightning-clad ally.
Galamon received Argrave’s command and rushed forward to meet the lightning-wreathed golem. Though the elven vampire was huge, the golem was titanic—Argrave estimated it was near twelve feet tall, and with the black storm clouds billowing from its body, it appeared larger. Nevertheless, Galamon approached it without fear.
Argrave cast a subset spell of [Pack Leader], commanding his Brumesingers to attack what he willed. Simultaneously, he shouted, “Durran!”
“I know!” the tribal returned as he moved along the edge of the circular tower, heading towards the rightward golem.
Galamon met with the lightning-wreathed golem, his greatsword at the ready. He kept a safe distance away, not moving to attack at all. The golem raised its spear in one hand, then thrust. The attack was inhumanly fast, yet Galamon returned with an equally ridiculously fast sidestep. The spear impaled the ground, sending a single surge through the jade spiral. None were on the jade, though. It dragged its spear through the stone, sending rubble and sparks flying everywhere, and did a great underhand swing at Galamon, who again dodged narrowly.
On the opposite side, Durran engaged with the other golem. Though slower, it was still ridiculously potent. Because of its slowness, though, Durran led it away, battering its spearhead with relentless casts of the D-rank spell [Wind Blade]. It rarely had an opportunity to swing. Argrave and Anneliese followed this fight. Argrave’s four Brumesingers relentlessly battered its spearhead with conjured warriors, the foxes howling their song while writhed in the brume. Anneliese contributed where she could, but without getting dangerously close it was difficult to be accurate.
Argrave’s gaze constantly wandered to the golem battling Galamon. It was a ridiculous show of prowess from both sides—the golem had a machine ruthlessness, destroying parts of the tower parapet with ferocious swings as Galamon dodged with finesse entirely unbefitting the plate armor he wore. The armor served its purpose, though, shielding him from stones whistling through the air after each staggeringly powerful attack.
Argrave wasn’t watching because of worry. He was waiting for a sign.
The moment he saw the lightning-clad golem put two hands on its spear, he shouted as loud as he could, “SWITCH!”
Durran pushed the back of his glaive against the tower’s parapet, narrowly dodging a swing from the golem. He slid beneath its legs and then took off in a desperate sprint towards the opposite side. The golem fighting Galamon raised its spear up and slammed the ground. Just as they had before, pillars of electricity roared up into the sky from the spiral of jade on the floor loud enough to make Argrave’s ears hurt.
When things settled, the golem that had been combatting Durran now bore lightning, and Galamon disengaged to go meet it. He and Durran passed by each other, and Durran took the attention of the other golem now bereft of lightning.
Argrave didn’t know if Durran had fled too well, or if Galamon had disengaged too slowly. Regardless, the twelve-foot-tall monstrosity of angry metal turned towards Argrave and Anneliese. Its first ground-shaking step made it clear that they didn’t have enough time to get away. They both stepped backwards, terrified.
His mind worked quickly. Anneliese is to my right. Galamon is to my left. He’s the only one that can deal with this golem effectively. She’s furthest from Galamon.
With rationality and emotions both cementing his decision, Argrave ceased retreating. He stepped forward and pushed Anneliese further back in one motion. He tried to head towards Galamon, kiting the golem, but the thing was so fast it mattered little.
Its first attack towards Argrave was a wide righthand swing. It was deceptively fast, and the lightning distorted his view, but Argrave crouched and lurched backwards. He could feel heat move near his face as the spearhead passed by. In seconds, the towering thing grew closer. It pulled its hand back, preparing a thrust. Argrave used his enchanted ring to conjure a B-rank ward.
The golem thrusted with the speed of a snake’s bite, and the attack met the golden ward. The shield didn’t last more than a second before shattering. Fortunately, Argrave didn’t need more than a second. He dodged, and the attack sunk deep into the stone just beside his foot. He saw Galamon very close, and felt some triumph extinguish his panic.
Argrave tried to move, but it felt like he was kicking air. His eyes darted to the ground to see the stone bricks beneath him crumbling.
It must’ve hit a weak part of the floor, Argrave realized. He started to see the half-jade, half-stone stairs below as the floor beneath him fell away. Argrave sought out something, anything, to find purchase, but the entire floor was collapsing. Galamon was close, but too far to beat gravity.
There was something solid, though. Argrave grabbed the golem’s arm, glaring up at its eyes billowing smoke, sparking with electricity. He felt it move, pulling him back. Argrave yanked himself forward, away from the crumbling floor and the spearhead, and then…
Argrave saw white and felt tremendous pain. For a few seconds, he didn’t know where he was. Slowly, whiteness faded, and his sight returned. He realized he was on his back, staring up at the sky. He couldn’t breathe at all. He grabbed at his chest. It felt like someone had dropped a 300-pound barbell right on his ribs. He’d probably been struck by the shaft of the golem’s spear. If not for his enchanted gear, he was certain he’d be dead.
As though brought back to life, Argrave sat up, taking in small, pained breaths as his windedness faded. He tried to stand but failed. He was spasming slightly—likely the electricity from the golem’s blow. When his vision fully returned, he saw the lightning-wreathed golem striding towards him, spear held at the ready. That was motivation enough to stand, pained though he was.
A black axe struck the approaching golem in the head. While barely reacting to the blow itself, it did turn from Argrave. Galamon had thrown his axe and stood holding his greatsword in one hand. Argrave watched the axe fall over the edge of the tower, lost.
Anneliese rushed over at that point, practically tackling Argrave away. She helped him to safety, and once she was content he was there, moved to rejoin the fight. She said something, but Argrave couldn’t hear over the ringing in his ears. He took a few seconds to gather himself, regain his bearings, and then stood straight once again.
This time, Argrave focused on the golem Galamon engaged, aiming for it because they had already damaged the spearhead heavily. Durran held off the other admirably, luring it far away on his own. With the speed of the lightning-clad golem attacks it was difficult to land blows, yet Argrave’s Brumesingers still chipped away at it.
The golem put two hands on its spear, and Argrave at once shouted, “SWITCH!” again. The shout must’ve dislodged something, because he felt a little blood in his mouth.
As the golem prepared to slam its spear on the ground, Anneliese launched herself in the air slightly with a spell of wind. She held her hand out and used the C-rank [Ice Spear]. The spear of ice met the descending slam in transit. A crack echoed through the air, and though the lightning slammed into the ground, something metal soared through the air, clattering against the ground.
The golem halted, and all of the storm cloud within it dispersed, surging towards the other golem. Argrave spotted the severed spearhead, and feeling some triumph, faced the other foe. Though clad in lightning and monstrously fast, only one remained.
Durran fled from the now-empowered golem. His flight was not as fast as the first time, though, and the golem gained on him. It swung just as he neared the now-immobile other golem, and he sought refuge behind it. The lightning-wreathed spear slammed into the other golem’s chest, knocking it a solid ten feet away. Durran narrowly avoided being swept up, putting yet more distance between himself and the golem.
Galamon confronted the last foe. Though the attacks were every bit as ferocious as before, it seemed different, somehow, as though Galamon had figured something out. His dodges were closer but more certain, and he avoided even the rubble dislodged by the golem’s wild attacks.
The next minute was a masterful dance. Galamon continued to avoid the golem’s flurry, not an inch away from the spearhead with every attack. Whenever the golem paused, Anneliese, Argrave, and Durran all attacked it. The golem pressed forward, ostensibly on the offensive, yet it felt like they were beating it into submission.
When it raised its spear far above its head, preparing for an earth-shattering overhand blow, Galamon stopped moving. As soon as it began to swing, he swung. Argrave feared the elven vampire had lost his marbles, but the enchanted blade projected out its blade of wind. When the two attacks met, the spearhead broke off, retaining most of its momentum. It stabbed the jade spiral just behind Galamon.
The titanic golem fell to its knees, black storm cloud pouring out of its mouth. The cloud rose into the sky steadily, like smoke from a failing engine. Then, both of the immobile golems writhed. Lightning shot up into the sky from their mouths. All four of them watched the sky warily. A second later, lightning descended again. Two bolts of lightning struck each knife in turn.
Argrave stood, breathing in the silence. A loud clattering drew his attention. Durran had fallen to his back, and his glaive lay beside him. Argrave worriedly approached, pushing past the pain in his chest. He kneeled beside the man.
“What’s wrong?” Argrave insisted. “Are you hit somewhere? Where?”
Durran started wheezing. Argrave hesitated for a moment, scanning the man for injuries. Considering he was wheezing, perhaps he’d been struck in the chest.
It took him a second to realize that his wheezing was laughter.
“’What’s wrong,’” Durran repeated, then resumed his wheezing laughter. “What in the gods’ name do you think is wrong? Almost pissed myself, not ashamed to admit it.”
Argrave laughed in relief, then looked around. Anneliese stood above one of the fallen spearheads.
“It is over,” she sighed, getting her breathing back under control. She covered her mouth with shaky hands and breathed slowly. Argrave rose to his feet and went to stand next to her, comforting as best he knew how.
“Are they safe to pick up?” Galamon questioned. Argrave turned his head where the vampire was kneeling over the spearhead that had fallen near him.
Argrave knelt to the one by Anneliese’s feet and picked it up. “Wouldn’t be much point in coming here if they weren’t safe.”
The dagger was a beautiful thing, completely unworn despite the ferocity of the fight they’d just endured. It had no guard, but its handle was black. Its blade was a resplendent blue metal of some kind and bore barbs near the tip. It had three gems in the center of the blade—a large emerald at its base, a smaller one further up, and the smallest just above that. A circle of small rubies encircled each gem. Magic shone in the gemstones.
“These…” Argrave held it up. “…are the Daggers of Ayazz. But I prefer to call them the Giantkillers.”